This project is an expansion of my original EC2 Security Lab. In this version, I added a risk register, threat model, and blast radius analysis to improve the project’s security analysis as well as improved readiblity.

EC2-Security-Lab

Overview: For this lab I am going to incorrectly configure an EC2 instance. This instance will only allow traffic from my IP and SSH. I will first walk through the first iteration of the instance. 
Realize that the security controls are not enough then attaching an IAM role to the Instance and setting up a necessary CloudTrail. 
After I am going to simulate an attack and then detect the attack with CloudTrail. Finally I will remove SSH using SSM and go over what I learned. 

Setting up the EC2 Instance: As I was setting up the EC2 instance I intentionally left everything default except switching traffic from anywhere to just my IP and leaving SSH on. 

Risk-Register and Threat Model: This is the step that I created the risk-register to assses the vulnerabilites and added a threat model at the end to demonstrate understanding. 

Attaching an IAM Role to EC2: After launching the instance I  went to IAM Roles to create a role for this EC2 instance that has AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore attached to it to ensure a secure connection when in use. 

Setting up CloudTrail: After I went to CloudTrail to capture any AWS API traffic that might happen. I kept management events, read, write permissions active. 

Checking if things are working as intended: I checked the resources inside of the instance to see if the CloudTrail would catch it and it did.

SSM Session Manager: Now that I know that traffic is being captured I decided to remove SSH entirely. 
I first launched a session using Systems Manager, then went back to my instance and removed SSH from the inbound rules. Then I went to networking to ensure that there were no elastic IPs being published. 

Threat Model

Initial Access: Exposed SSH or weak exposure controls

Privilege Risk: Overprivileged IAM user compromise

Visibility Gap: No CloudTrail limits investigations

Storage Risk: Accidental public S3 exposure

Blast Radius Analysis

If IAM user is compromised: Full administrative control of the AWS account due to AdministratorAccess.

If EC2 instance is compromised: Impact is limited by the attached EC2 role permissions (SSM access), but misconfigurations could still increase exposure if security controls are changed.

This makes it interview-ready with almost no extra work. analysis as I had a rough Idea in the original project but I hoped to make it more concrete. 

Things that I learned: 
1. With this second iteration I aimed to make this version a bit more polished by adding a threat model and risk register. 
The threat model works as a short analysis of the system from a broader view point while the risk register takes into account each possible risk that this instance might have. 
2. I additionally added a blast radius

Key Takeaways:
Reduced attack surface by removing SSH and using SSM

Improved audit visibility with CloudTrail

Identified IAM overprivilege as the highest blast-radius risk




